W-19626762 Agent Visualizer Overview (#2)
mulesoft/docs-agent-visualizer: modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

= Agent Visualizer Overview

Agent Visualizer provides a detailed visual graph so you can see, understand, and interact with your enterprise's evolving network of agents, Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers, and LLMs. Agent Visualizer gives you insight into hidden agent interactions, governance gaps, and performance bottlenecks. Agent Visualizer offers complete situational awareness of your agentic ecosystem. 

Agent Visualizer is an intuitive user interface that helps you:

* Gain complete situational awareness of your agentic ecosystem with a view of all connected agents in your agent network on one map, including clear relationships and direction of calls.
* See unclear interaction patterns by showing real-time call volume overlays for the past 24 hours. This helps you understand key pathways and identify under- or overused connections. 
* See governance gaps with a view of which agents are protected by Flex Gateways and policies. 
* Understand node purpose and origin.
+ 
You gain full understanding of each asset in your agent network and any active running instances when you select a node. 
* Easily view production and nonproduction traffic. 

> image::agent-visualizer.png[Agent Visualizer graph showing a network of agents, brokers, and MCP servers and the detail card for a highlighted node]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::agent-visualizer.png[Agent Visualizer graph showing a network of agents, brokers, and MCP servers and the details card for a highlighted node]
```

= Agent Visualizer Overview

> Agent Visualizer provides a detailed visual graph so you can see, understand, and interact with your enterprise's evolving network of agents, Model Context Protocol (MCP) Servers, and LLMs. Agent Visualizer gives you insight into hidden agent interactions, governance gaps, and performance bottlenecks. Agent Visualizer offers complete situational awareness of your agentic ecosystem. 

Reviewer: I think it's weird to spell out MCP but not LLM.

> Agent Visualizer provides a detailed visual graph so you can see, understand, and interact with your enterprise's evolving network of agents, Model Context Protocol (MCP) Servers, and LLMs. Agent Visualizer gives you insight into hidden agent interactions, governance gaps, and performance bottlenecks. Agent Visualizer offers complete situational awareness of your agentic ecosystem. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agent Visualizer provides a detailed visual graph so you can see, understand, and interact with your enterprise's evolving network of agents, Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers, and LLMs. Agent Visualizer gives you insight into hidden agent interactions, governance gaps, and performance bottlenecks. Agent Visualizer offers complete situational awareness of your agentic ecosystem. 
```

> Agent Visualizer provides a detailed visual graph so you can see, understand, and interact with your enterprise's evolving network of agents, Model Context Protocol (MCP) Servers, and LLMs. Agent Visualizer gives you insight into hidden agent interactions, governance gaps, and performance bottlenecks. Agent Visualizer offers complete situational awareness of your agentic ecosystem. 

Reviewer: Make sure this s/d summarizes (rather than introduces) the topic - for example, the use cases and permissions.

With Agent Visualizer, you can:

> * Get a clear view of connections and interactions among all your agents, clients, and Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Get a clear view of connections and interactions among your agents, clients, and MCP servers.
```

* Understand data movement and dependencies at a glance by seeing which systems are calling your agents and what those agents are calling in turn.
* Detect potential issues proactively.
* Optimize agent orchestration for performance, trust, and scale. 

> Agent Visualizer is an intuitive user interface that helps you:

Reviewer: Why have two lists here? Is the difference "Agent Visualizer" vs "AV UI"?

Line 8 seems to be more UI related.

>  * Gain full visibility into your agent network by showing all connected agents in one network map, with clear relationships and direction of calls, gaining complete situational awareness of your agentic ecosystem. 

Reviewer: I think this is switching between "you" (gain visibility) and the UI (showing all agents).

Reviewer: This is a very complicated sentence. Is the point "full visibility" or "complete situational awareness"?

>  * Gain full visibility into your agent network by showing all connected agents in one network map, with clear relationships and direction of calls, gaining complete situational awareness of your agentic ecosystem. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Gain complete situational awareness of your agentic ecosystem with a view of all connected agents in your agent network on one map, including clear relationships and direction of calls.
```

>  * See unclear interaction patterns by showing real-time or historical transaction volume overlays on network edges. This helps you understand key pathways and identify under or overused connections. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * See unclear interaction patterns by showing real time or historical transaction volume overlays on network edges. This helps you understand key pathways and identify under- or overused connections. 
```

>  * See governance gaps. You can see which agents are protected by Flex Gateways and policies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * See governance gaps with a view of which agents are protected by Flex Gateways and policies. 
```

>  * Understand node purpose and origin. You gain full understanding of each asset in your agent network and any active running instances when you select a node. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Understand node purpose and origin.
 + 
 You gain full understanding of each asset in your agent network and any active running instances when you select a node. 
```

>  * Easily view product and non-production traffic. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Easily view production and nonproduction traffic. 
```

[[use-cases]]
== Use Cases

> Use Agent Visualizer to gain clarity and control over your agent ecosystem.

Reviewer: For later - think about how to consolidate the bullet lists with maybe a more JTBD approach (like this one). Is there a way to move some of the other bullets as part of these?

Reviewer: Oh, now I see - these are persona-based JTBD.

> * Understand inventory and dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Understand inventory and dependencies.
```

+

> View a network graph of your enterprise agents to understand dependencies and troubleshoot failures. This provides the full inventory needed for system design and helps you avoid shadow IT.

Reviewer: I assume "shadow IT" is a common phrase (that I just have never heard of :>)

> * Validate agent consumption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Validate agent consumption.
```

+
Developers can validate how their agent is being consumed by viewing real-time transaction traffic volume overlays.

> * Assess security and compliance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Assess security and compliance.
```

+
Security and compliance personnel can visualize active policies in the agent network to validate coverage and instantly spot vulnerabilities.

> * Troubleshoot failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Troubleshoot failures.
```

+

> Developers can deep-link from the visualization directly into the underlying service logs for quick diagnostics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Developers can deep-link from the visualization directly into the underlying service logs for quick diagnostics.
```
